Back in our CodePipeline console,
we can select the repository that we just created.
Now,
we might need to press Previous and then Next one time before we do this to
make sure that the new CodeCommit repository gets loaded in.
From there, we'll be able to select flasky3,
and then we can click the master branch because that's
where we'll be pushing our code.
When we push commits to the master branch,
the build pipeline will kick off automatically.
From there,
we'll leave Amazon CloudWatch Events selected for the detection option
and then click Next to configure our build provider,
in this case, AWS CodeBuild.
We'll need to create a new project for this because we don't want to interfere
with any other projects we were working on in this course.
So we'll call this project flasky3,
and then we'll scroll down and configure the environment.
We'll do this pretty quickly just by selecting Ubuntu,
selecting the Runtime as Standard and the Image as 4.0,
and then we'll have the option to create a new
service role or use an existing one.
It's probably fine for us to use the new service role,
and it should be able to create everything for us by default.
So once we're done,
we can scroll down to the Buildspec section and type in buildspec.yml,
which is the location of where the buildspec file will
be in the root of our repository.
From here, we'll scroll down and click Continue to CodePipeline.
This should create our CodeBuild project and allow us to go back to
CodePipeline in order to finish configuring everything.
So now that we're here,
we have successfully created our CodeBuild project and
we can scroll down to the next step,
which is to determine how we deploy this project.
So let's go to the Deploy provider, and in this case,
we're not going to use CodeDeploy or any of the other AWS deployment services.
We're going to deploy directly to AWS Elastic Beanstalk,
and we don't have any intermediary here other than
CodePipeline and the Elastic Beanstalk service.
Now, to do this, we're going to need to create a new application,
so let's go to the services drop‑down and go to Elastic Beanstalk.
We'll open this up in a new tab so we don't lose our
spot from creating our pipeline.
Now, let's click Create Application,
and we'll create an application that we call flasky3,
and we'll go down and select the platform,
in this case, we'll use Python because that's what Flask is based on,
and we'll leave everything else as the defaults.
This will create a sample application, which will not be our application,
but will be a place that we can then deploy our application to.
You're going to probably have to wait for about 5 to 10
minutes for this entire process to finish up.
If it happens faster, good for you.
Once it's done,
we'll be able to override this application with our own custom application.
After several minutes,
our environment and the Elastic Beanstalk application
should have finished deploying.
If you scroll down,
you should see that there's a health check that's running okay.
And if we click the URL to visit our application,
you should see a welcome screen, like this.
Now, we're going to override this with our own Flask application.
So let's go back to CodePipeline and do this now.
If we don't see our application name in the drop‑down,
we'll have to do the same thing I mentioned before where we
press Previous and then we press Next to now see the
refreshed options for Elastic Beanstalk.
Now, we should be able to select flasky3 and the Environment name,
which by default, is capital Flasky3‑env.
Next, we'll click Next, and finally, we'll create the pipeline.
With our pipeline created,
it'll automatically start the release process for our pipeline,
starting by going to the source in the AWS CodeCommit repository and then
moving that code over to our build stage to get tested and built. Inside
of CodeBuild, if we wanted to review this,
we could click the Details of this section, and this would
move us over to the CodeBuild console,
and we could review all the logs for this build.
And as this happens,
we can go back to the CodePipeline console. We can then see the
Build step finish and move on to the Deploy step if the tests
succeed. After waiting for a minute,
you'll see that the Build step has been finished, and
we've moved on to the Deploy step.
It's now deploying all of our application over to the Flasky3
environment in the Elastic Beanstalk console.
And if we open up the window for Flasky3 right here, we should
eventually see this URL change from what it appears as now to what our
application will have it appear as, so let's wait until this
CodePipeline finishes and see the results.
After a few more minutes,
our deployment should have succeeded to Elastic Beanstalk,
and we can go back to the URL that we had earlier and refresh the screen.
Now we have are fairly boring, but completely automated
build and deployment of our application.
If we wanted to test out that it works,
we could go to the URL bar and add something like our
name here to get a custom greeting.
Now that we've done this deployment,
we can go back to VS code and make a change that will
automatically kick off a new release for our pipeline.
Let's go into the application.py file, and let's change the greeting.
In this case,
let's move it from Hello to Greetings, and then let's
save this and add a new commit.
We'll do git status,
git add dot, and then git commit ‑m, and we'll do greetings as our
commit, and then we'll do git push origin master to send all those
changes up into CodeCommit. Now that we've done this, we quickly
go back to CodePipeline,
go over to the Pipelines section. In a moment, we should see this change
from the first commit that we had a minute ago. And if we refresh it, it
should show us an in‑progress execution.
So let's go into flasky3 now to see the new execution.
It's evaluating the changes we just made the AWS CodeCommit in our
source and then sending them along to the build step that it's
currently running through. A minute or 2 later,
the build process will finish and our new deployment will kick off
to Elastic Beanstalk. And a minute after that,
Elastic Beanstalk should finish deploying our application.
So let's refresh the screen one more time.
Now, it's saying Greetings instead of Hello, so this means our application
has successfully gone through an entire release pipeline.
Nice work on everything you've done so far.
But remember,
we might want to tear all these resources back down
so we don't get charged for them. Let's look at that in the next section.